# knowledge-network-diffusion
PhD research to test the inflluence of geographical scientific collaboration networks in the diffusion of scientific innovations. Case study: the use of zebrafish as a model organism in biomedical research.

The aim of the project is to study the role that geographical collaboration networks played in the diffusion of zebrafish as a model organism in Latin America and in other scientific regions from 1996 onwards. In particular, it looks at the extent to which the adoption of zebrafish as a model organism is explained by exposure to different spatial networks of scientific collaboration (i.e. international, regional and national). Particularly, the goal is to analyse whether access to networks of experienced users of the model, presumably located outside the local milieu, explains the diffusion of the zebrafish in a peripheral regional community such as Latin America.

To analyse diffusion dynamics in zebrafish research, I relied on the concept of ‘network exposure’ (Valente 1995), common in network diffusion models. I use network exposure as a proxy to measure the presence of actors with previous experience in the use of this model in the collaboration networks of research institutes. In addition, the analysis it includes a methodology I developed to classify the geographical precedence of collaborators and model the influence of different spatial networks (via Machine Learnign) in the adoption of zebrafish as a model organism in Latin America and other regional communities.
